# hector-CEDS


This project can be used to prepare the Hector `.ini` file and emissions `.csv` table from the 2024-07-08 [CEDS](https://github.com/jGCRI/ceds) release. The tentative plan is for this workflow to eventually be incorporated into gcam-data, but for now, it is a standalone workflow. Setup instructions are written for macOS users; Windows users may need to make some adjustments.


This project can be used to prepare the Hector ini file and emissions csv table using from the 2024-07-08 [CEDS](https://github.com/jGCRI/ceds) release, the tentative plan is for this workflow to eventual be incorporated in gcam-data but for now this is a stand alone workflow. Set up instructions are written for mac users, window users may have to make some adjustments. 

**Getting started** 

1. **Clone the Repository** Clone a copy of this repository to your local machine.
2. **Download Raw Data Files** The raw data files are too large to be committed to the Git repository. You can download them from Zenodo by running the following command in your terminal:

```
sh hector-CEDS/raw-data/get-raw-data.sh
```
3. **Install Dependencies** Install the required packages listed in `hector-CEDS/scripts/constants.R`

**Run Workflow**

To run the entire workflow at once, execute the following command in R. This will run all scripts in the correct order, generating Hector inputs in the `hector-CEDS/inputs` directory: 

```
source("hector-CEDS/scripts/run_all.R")
```

**Using CEDS emissions in Hector**

The Hector inputs generated by this workflow are included in this repository. Most users can use the default `hector-CEDS/inputs/hector_ceds_historical.ini` file unless they want to modify the input time series. Here’s an example of how to use this `.ini` file in R:

```
# Load Hector package
library(hector)

# Define the path to the hector_ceds_historical ini file
# Replace PATH/TO with the path to where you installed hector-CEDS on your local machine
ini <- "PATH/TO/hector-CEDS/inputs/hector_ceds_historical.ini"

# Create a new Hector core with the specified ini file
hc <- newcore(ini)

# Run Hector up to the end of CEDS emissions data in 2023
run(hc, runtodate = 2023)

# Use fetchvars to examine Hector results
# For more examples, visit https://github.com/JGCRI/hector
```










